Based on the videos and the reading material, how would you define a data scientist and data science? (3 marks)

A data scientist is any individual in any field of study or profession, who has some domain expertise, and wishes to gain some deep insight or knowledge from stored data, no matter the size or origin. He or she is trained in the application and use of various tools, such as Hadoop, and methods and techniques such as statistics and mathematics to enable the drawing, synthesis, or analysis of the data in a fashion that enables the formulation of a story that could be used to influence a strategic decision or direction in business or other field of work. 

Data science is an area of study or branch of learning which employs the use of many methods and techniques to derive and extract meaningful information and deductions from a wide class, size and category of data which could be structured or unstructured. These data may be stored in forms and formats at different locations. Various tools, methods, and techniques, such as statistics and mathematics, are then used to draw or derive such meaningful information. 

As discussed in the videos and the reading material, data science can be applied to problems across different industries. What industry are you passionate about and would like to pursue a data science career in? (1 mark)

I am passionate about the transportation industry and would like to apply data science in streamlining and determining best transport options for everyday users who commute on public transport and do not have their own vehicles.

Based on the videos and the reading material, what are the ten main components of a report that would be delivered at the end of a data science project? (5 marks)
At the end of a study a report is delivered to showcase the results of the findings. Irrespective of the size of the study the report shall have the following: a cover page, to inform the reader of the area of study of the report. An executive summary presents a high-level summary to management of the company for instance. The case for the report is stated in an introduction followed by a literature review and methodology to demonstrate the processes adopted during the study. The results are presented at the exit points of the analysis and or synthesis of the research conducted. These results are, subsequently, nicely crafted into clear meaningful information or a story in the discussions sections. The conclusion would reiterate the purpose of the finding and provide the necessary caveats encountered to enable more studies in those areas. A references page is attached to inform on the sources of materials used or where data was collected from, and finally the acknowledgement of individuals to contributed to the study are mentioned in the acknowledgement section of the report.
